[Edit] CSS: Borders (#6833)
Codecademy/codepedia-content: content/css/concepts/borders/borders.md

- `color`: Sets the border color using any valid CSS color value

**Return value:**

This is a CSS declaration, not a function, so it doesn't return a value but rather applies a visual style.

## Borders vs Outlines

| Feature              | Borders                              | Outlines                            |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| **Space**            | Take up space in the layout          | Do not take up space                |
| **Box Model**        | Part of the CSS box model            | Drawn outside the element           |
| **Individual Sides** | Can style each side differently      | Cannot style sides individually     |
| **Curved Corners**   | Can be curved with border-radius     | Cannot be curved                    |
| **Layout Impact**    | Affect element's total dimensions    | Do not affect layout or positioning |
| **Primary Use**      | Visual styling and design            | Accessibility (focus indicators)    |
| **Clickable Area**   | Included in element's clickable area | Not included in clickable area      |

## Example: Basic Border Styling

> This example demonstrates how to apply basic border styles to elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to apply basic border styles to elements.
```

```css
/* Basic solid border */
.basic-border {
  border: 2px solid #333;
  padding: 15px;
  margin: 10px;
}

/* Different border styles */
.dotted-border {
  border: 3px dotted #ff6b6b;
  padding: 10px;
}

.dashed-border {
  border: 2px dashed #4ecdc4;
  padding: 10px;
}

.double-border {
  border: 5px double #45b7d1;
  padding: 10px;
}
```

The following HTML code is the structure for the above CSS:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <div class="basic-border">This element has a solid black border</div>
    <div class="dotted-border">This element has a dotted red border</div>
    <div class="dashed-border">This element has a dashed teal border</div>
    <div class="double-border">This element has a double blue border</div>
  </body>
</html>
```

> The output of this code will be:
> 
> ![Image illustrating various css borders](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/border-output.png)
> 
> This example shows different border styles applied to div elements. The solid border creates a clean, professional look, while dotted and dashed borders add visual interest. The double border creates a more decorative effect suitable for highlighting important content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of this code will be:

![Image illustrating various css borders](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/border-output.png)

The above example shows different border styles applied to div elements. The solid border creates a clean, professional look, while dotted and dashed borders add visual interest. The double border creates a more decorative effect suitable for highlighting important content.
```
